Add user documentation file and integration tests for YOLO format (#246)
openvinotoolkit/datumaro: docs/formats/yolo_user_manual.md

# YOLO user manual

## Contents
- [Format specification](#format-specification)
- [Load YOLO dataset](#load-yolo-dataset)
- [Export to other formats](#export-to-other-formats)
- [Export to YOLO format](#export-to-yolo-format)
- [Particular use cases](#particular-use-cases)

## Format specification

- The YOLO dataset format is for training and validating object detection models.
Specification for this format available
[here](https://github.com/AlexeyAB/darknet#how-to-train-to-detect-your-custom-objects).
And also you can find some official examples on working with YOLO dataset
[here](https://pjreddie.com/darknet/yolo/);

> - The YOLO dataset format support the followoing types of annotations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The YOLO dataset format support the following types of annotations:
```

    - `Bounding boxes`

> - YOLO format doesn`t support attributes for annotations;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- YOLO format doesn't support attributes for annotations;
```

- The format only supports subsets named `train` or `valid`.

## Load YOLO dataset

Few ways to create Datumaro project and add YOLO dataset to it:

```bash
datum import -o project -f yolo -i <path/to/yolo/dataset>

# another way to do the same:
datum create -o project
datum add path -p project -f yolo -i <path/to/yolo/dataset>

# and you can add another one yolo dataset:
datum add path -p project -f yolo -i <path/to/other/yolo/dataset>
```

YOLO dataset directory should have the following structure:

<!--lint disable fenced-code-flag-->
```
└─ yolo_dataset/
   │
   ├── obj.names  # file with list of classes
   ├── obj.data   # file with dataset information
   ├── train.txt  # list of image paths in train subset
   ├── valid.txt  # list of image paths in valid subset
   │
   ├── obj_train_data/  # directory with annotations for train subset
   │    ├── image1.txt  # list of labeled bounding boxes for image1
   │    ├── image2.txt
   │    ├── ...
   │
   ├── obj_valid_data/  # directory with annotations for valid subset
   │    ├── image101.txt
   │    ├── image102.txt

>    │    ├── ...

Reviewer: Add info about image placement

```

> > YOLO dataset cannot contain a subset with a name other than `train` or `valid`.
> If importing dataset contain such subsets, Datumaro will skip them and they will do not load
> into a project. Also, if you are exporting an existing dataset from a project to yolo format,
> all subsets, which are different from `train` or `valid` will be skipped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> YOLO dataset cannot contain a subset with a name other than `train` or `valid`.
If imported dataset contains such subsets, they will be ignored. If you are exporting a project into yolo format,
all subsets different from `train` and `valid` will be skipped. If there is no subset separation in a project, the data
will be saved in `train` subset.
```

- `obj.data` should have the following content, it is not necessary to have both
subsets, but necessary to have one of them:
```
classes = 5 # optional
names = <path/to/obj.names>
train = <path/to/train.txt>
valid = <path/to/valid.txt>
backup = backup/ # optional
```
- `obj.names` contain list of classes.
The line number for the class is the same as its index:
```
label1  # label1 has index 0
label2  # label2 has index 1
label3  # label2 has index 2
...
```
- Files `train.txt` and `valid.txt` should have the following structure:
```
<path/to/image1.jpg>
<path/to/image2.jpg>
...
```
- Files in directories `obj_train_data/` and `obj_valid_data/`

> should contain information about a labeled bounding boxes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
should contain information about labeled bounding boxes
```

for images:
```
# image1.txt:
# <label_index> <x> <y> <width> <height>
0 0.250000 0.400000 0.300000 0.400000
3 0.600000 0.400000 0.400000 0.266667
```
Here `x`, `y`, `width`, and `height` are relative to the image's width and height.

## Export to other formats

Datumaro can convert YOLO dataset into any other format
[Datumaro supports](../docs/user_manual.md#supported-formats).
For successful conversion the output format should support
object detection task (e.g. Pascal VOC, COCO, TF Detection API etc.)

Examples:
```bash
datum import -o project -f yolo -i <path/to/yolo/dataset>
datum export -p project -f voc -o <path/to/output/voc/dataset>
```

```bash
datum convert -if yolo -i <path/to/yolo/dataset> \
              -f coco_instances -o <path/to/output/coco/dataset>
```

## Export to YOLO format

> Datumaro can convert existing dataset to YOLO format,
> if existing dataset support object detection task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datumaro can an convert existing dataset to YOLO format,
if the dataset supports object detection task.
```

Example:

```
datum import -p project -f coco_instances -i <path/to/coco/dataset>
datum export -p project -f yolo -o <path/to/output/yolo/dataset> -- --save-images
```

Extra options for export to YOLO format:

- `--save-images` allow to export dataset with saving images
(by default `False`);
- `--image-ext <IMAGE_EXT>` allow to specify image extension

> for exporting dataset (by default use original or `.jpg` if none).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for exporting dataset (default: use original or `.jpg`, if none).

```

```

### How to remove some class from YOLO dataset?
Delete all items, which contain `cat` objects and remove
`cat` from list of classes:
```bash
datum import -o project -f yolo -i ./yolo_dataset
datum filter -p project -o filtered -m i+a -e '/item/annotation[label!="cat"]'
datum transform -p filtered -o without_cat -t remap_labels -- -l cat:
datum export -p without_cat -f yolo -o ./yolo_without_cats
```

### How to create custom dataset in YOLO format?
```python
import numpy as np
from datumaro.components.dataset import Dataset
from datumaro.components.extractor import Bbox, DatasetItem

dataset = Dataset.from_iterable([
    DatasetItem(id='image_001', subset='train',
        image=np.ones((20, 20, 3)),
        annotations=[
            Bbox(3.0, 1.0, 8.0, 5.0, label=1),
            Bbox(1.0, 1.0, 10.0, 1.0, label=2)
        ]
    ),
    DatasetItem(id='image_002', subset='train',
        image=np.ones((15, 10, 3)),
        annotations=[
            Bbox(4.0, 4.0, 4.0, 4.0, label=3)
        ]
    )
], categories=['house', 'bridge', 'crosswalk', 'traffic_light'])

dataset.export('../yolo_dataset', format='yolo', save_images=True)
```

> ### How to get information about detected objects for each images?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to get information about objects on each images?
```

Is it more useful than `filter --dry-run` and `stats`?

```python
from datumaro.components.dataset import Dataset
from datumaro.components.extractor import AnnotationType

dataset = Dataset.import_from('./yolo_dataset', format='yolo')

> cats = dataset.categories()[AnnotationType['label']]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cats = dataset.categories()[AnnotationType.label]
```
